let's talk about thrift thrift is a
concept where you reduce reuse and
recycle but yet with an economic aspect
I think has a real potential for change
my grandmother she knew about thrift
this is her string jar she never bought
any string basically she would collect
string it would come from the butchers
it would come from presents she put it
in the jar and then she would use it
when it was needed when it was finished
where there was tying up the Roses
turning up a part of my bike once we
finished with that it'll go back into
the jar this is the perfect idea of
thrift you use what you need you don't
actually purchase anything so you save
money kids also inherently know this
idea when you want to throw out a
cardboard box the average kid will say
don't I want to use it for a robot head
or when he's very canoe to paddle down a
river they understand the value of the
second second life of products so I
think thrift is a perfect counterpoint
to the current age which we live in all
of our current products are replaceable
when we get that bright new new shiny
toy it's because basically we've got rid
of the old one the idea of that is of
course it's great in the moment but the
challenge is as we keep doing this we're
going to cause a problem
my problem is that there is really no
way when you throw something away it
typically goes into a landfill
now landfill is basically something
which is not going to go away and it's
increasing current at the moment we have
about 1.3 billion tons of material every
year going into landfills 2100 is going
to be about 4 billion tons see instead I
prefer if we started thrifting and what
that means is we consider materials when
they go into products and also when they
get used and at the end of their life
when can they be used again the idea of
completely changing the way we think
about waste so that waste is no longer a
dirty word we almost remove the word
waste completely all we're looking at
too is resources resource goes into a
product and then can basically go into
another product we used to be good at
thrifting my grandmother again she used
to use old seed packets to pay for the
bathroom walls
I think though there are companies out
there they will understand this value
and are promoting it and a lot of the
technologies that have been developed
for the smart age can also be adapted to
reduce reuse and also thrift more
proficiently and there's a material
scientist what I've been tracking over
the last couple of decades is how
companies against smart and thrifting
how they're able to understand this
concept and profit from it can you do
two examples the first one a good one
the second one not so good the first is
the automotive industry okay not always
known as among innovative or creative of
industries but it turns out they're
really really good at recycling their
products ninety-five percent of every
single car that gets on the road gets
recycled here and of that car about
seventy five percent of the entire car
goes and actually gets used again that
includes of course the old steel and
aluminum but then also the plastics from
the fender and also the interiors glass
from the windows and the windshield most
of the tires there's a mature and
successful industry that deals with
these old cars and basically recycles
them and put them back into use as new
cars or other new products even as we
move towards battery-powered cars there
are companies that claim they can
recycle up to 90 percent of the 11
million tons of batteries that are going
to be with us in 2020 now I think it's
not perfect but it's certainly good and
it's getting better
owners he's an interesting they're not
doing so well is the architecture
industry well the challenges with
architecture has always been when we
build up we don't think about taking
down we don't dismantle we don't
disassemble we demolish that's a
challenge because it ends up that about
third of all landfill waste in the u.s.
is architecture we need to think again
about this there are programs that can
actually reduce some of this material a
good example is this is actually bricks
that are made from old demolition waste
which includes the glass includes the
rubble includes the concrete you put up
a grinder put all together heat it up
and make these bricks we can basically
build more buildings from but it's only
a fraction of what we need my hope is
that with big data and geo tagging we
can actually change that and we can be
small strictly when it comes to
buildings if there's a building down the
block which is being
are the materials there that the new
building being built here can use can we
use that the ability to understand all
the materials that are available in that
building are still usable can we then
basically put them into a new building
without actually losing any value in the
process so now let's think about other
industries what other industries doing
to act react thrift well it turns out
that there are plenty of industries that
are also thinking about their own waste
and what they can do with it a simple
example is the waste that they basically
belch out as part of industrial
processes most metal smelters give off
an awful carbon dioxide turns out
there's a company called lam detector is
actually working in China and also soon
soon in South Africa there's able to
take that waste gas about 700,000 tons
per smelter and then turn it into about
400,000 tonnes of ethanol which is
equivalent to basically take them
powering 250,000 or quarter million cars
for a year it's a very effective use of
waste how about the proper lots more
close to home this is a simple solution
again takes the idea of reducing reusing
but then also with economic advantage so
it's a simple process and changing from
a cutting so we're typically between 20
and 30 materials are used which are cut
from a large cloth and then sewn
together or even sometimes glued we
changed it and said they just knitted
this tissue the advantage with this is
not just a simplification of the process
it's also I've got one material I have
zero waste and then also I'm able to
potentially recycle that at the end of
its life digital manufacturing is also
allowing us to do this a bit more
effectively in this case it's actually
creating the theoretical limit of
strength for a material you cannot get
any stronger for the amount of material
than this shape so it's a basic simple
block but the idea is I can extrapolate
this I can make it into large formats I
can make it into buildings bridges but
also airplane wings and shoes the idea
here is I'm minimizing the amount of
material visible examples make
architecture typically these sorts of
metal nodes are used to hold at large
tent structures in this case it was in
The Hague a large shopping center these
1,600
the materials on the left the difference
is by using the solution on the right
was they cut down on the number of steps
from seven to one because they one on
the left is currently welded there on
the right is that we just printed and it
was able to reduce waste to zero cost
less money and also because it's made
out of steel can be eventually recycled
at the end of its life nature also is
very effective at thrift think about it
nature has zero waste everything is
useful for another process so in this
case nano cellulose which is basically
one of the very fine building blocks of
cellulose which one of the material that
makes me makes one of the things that
makes trees strong you can isolate it
and it works very much like carbon fiber
so take that from a tree form it into
fibers and then as fibers constraints
and things such as airplanes buildings
cars the advantage of this though is
it's not just this bio derived comes
from and renewable resource but also
that it is transparent so can be used in
consumer electronics as well as food
packaging not bad for something that
basically comes in the backyard
another one from the bio source is
synthetic spider silk now it's very hard
to actually create spider silk naturally
you can basically get it from spiders
but in large numbers they tend to kill
each other and tend to eat each other so
basically you've got a problem with
creating it in the same way you do
regular silk so what you can do is you
can send take the DNA from the spider
and put it into various different things
you can put it to bacteria you can put
it into yeast you can put it into milk
and what you can do then is the milk or
the bacteria producing much larger
volumes and then from that spin a yarn
and then create a fabric or a rope again
bio derived has incredible strength
about the same as Kevlar so they're
using it in things like bulletproof
vests in helmets in outdoor jackets has
a great performance but again it's bio
derived at the end of its life it
potentially can go back into the soil
get composted to again be potentially
used again as a new material I want you
to leave you with one last one which is
bio-based but this I think is like the
ultimate thrift think about the poster
child for considered conspicuous
consumption it's the mr. water bottle we
have too many of them they're basically
coming everywhere they're their problem
in the ocean what do we do with them
this process
is able not just to recycle them but to
recycle them infinitely why is that
interesting because when we think about
reusing and recycling metals glass
things like that can be recycled as many
times as you like there's metal that's
basically in your car that may well have
come from a 1950s also Beall because you
can recycle influent no loss of
performance plastics after about once or
twice of recycling whether it's a bottle
whether it's a chair whatever it is if
it's carpet after two times on recycling
whether it goes back into another chair
etcetera it tends to lose strength it's
no longer any use this though just using
a few enzymes is able to recycle it
infinitely so I take a bottle or a chair
or some other plastic product I basicly
put it in with a few enzymes they break
it apart if they sit put it back into
its original molecules and then from
those molecules you can basically build
another chair or carpet or what so the
cycle is infinite the advantage with
that of course is that you have
potentially zero loss of material
resources again the perfect idea of
thrift
so in conclusion so what have you think
about the way if you make anything if
you're in any part of a design firm if
you basically are refurbishing your
house any aspect in which you will you
make something think about how that
product could potentially be used as a
second life or third life or fourth life
design in the ability for it to be taken
apart that to me is the ultimate thrift
I think that's basically what my
grandmother would love
[Applause]
[Music]